Add ZendMM internals, lifecycle and how to hook into docs (#145)
phpinternalsbook/PHP-Internals-Book: Book/php7/memory_management/zend_memory_manager.rst

What you must remember is that ZendMM leak tracking is a nice bonus tool to have, but it does not replace a
:doc:`true C memory debugger <./memory_debugging>`.

Lifecycle
*********

> PHP will call the ``start_memory_manager()`` function during it's startup phase, specifically when the PHP process is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PHP will call the ``start_memory_manager()`` function during its startup phase, specifically when the PHP process is
```

will cleanup for the next request, but not do a full shutdown of the memory manager. For example it will not free the
heap and keep the average amount of chunks used during the current request alive in the ``cached_chunks`` pointer on the
heap to be reused in the next request.

In the module shutdown phase (``MSHUTDOWN``) the Zend Engine will call the ``shutdown_memory_manager()`` function (which
calls the ``zend_mm_shutdown()`` function) with the boolean argument ``full`` set to ``true``, which will trigger a full
shutdown and free all cached chunks as well as the heap itself.

ZendMM internal design
**********************

The root of the ZendMM is the ``_zend_mm_heap`` struct (as defined in `Zend/zend_alloc.c
<https://github.com/php/php-src/blob/c3b910370c5c92007c3e3579024490345cb7f9a7/Zend/zend_alloc.c#L239>`__) which will be
created for every request during request init and stored in the ``alloc_globals->mm_heap``. This heap also comes with
the first chunk that is allocated with it. Chunks are then subdivided into pages. Smaller allocations are stored in bins
which may fit into one page but some also span multiple pages.

> Interal memory organisation

Author: ```suggestion
Internal memory organisation
```

``free_slots[BIN]``. After initialisation only the ``main_chunk`` exists and none or some ``cached_chunks``.

Chunks
++++++

Each chunk is 2 MB in size and consists of 512 pages. The first page of every chunk is reserved for the chunk header as
defined in the struct ``_zend_mm_chunk`` (as defined in `Zend/zend_alloc.c
<https://github.com/php/php-src/blob/c3b910370c5c92007c3e3579024490345cb7f9a7/Zend/zend_alloc.c#L286>`__). Chunks are
organised in a linked list with ``prev`` and ``next`` pointers.

Each chunk holds a bit mask in ``free_map`` (512 bits) where a single bit indicates if a page is in use or free.
Information on what is in a page is stored in ``map`` which is an array of 512 32 bit integers. Each of those integers
is used as a bitmap and holds the meta information about that page.

Pages
+++++

A page is 4096 bytes in size and can either hold a bin (for small allocations) or be part of a large allocation. What is
in it can be found in the map of the chunk the page belongs to.

Bins
++++

Small allocations are grouped together in bins. Bin sizes are predefined and come in 30 different sizes (8, 16, 24, 32,

> ... 3072). A bin holds same sized values and is linked from the heap directly.

Reviewer 2: "8, 16, 24" what? I suppose bytes?

Author: Correct, I fixed it

> A bin can consist of multiple pages. Example: There is a bin that holds elements the sizes 257 bytes to 320 bytes which
> occupies 5 pages and therefore has room for 64 elements of that size.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A bin can consist of multiple pages. Example: There exists a bin that holds elements ranging from 257 bytes to 320 bytes which occupies 5 pages, and therefore has room for 64 (derived from 4096*5/320) elements of that size.
```

Allocation categories
---------------------

Small allocations
+++++++++++++++++

> Allocations smaller than or up to 3072 bytes are organised in bins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Allocations less or equal than 3072 bytes are organised in bins.
```
